Added CONTRIBUTING.md file and contents (#48)
kachun333/OurPromise: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to OurPromise 🤝🏻

🎊If you're reading this, you're probably creating a Pull Request or planning to do so and that's great!🎊

This project is actively looking for contributors!
The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to this project, and you can see the live instance of the project [here](https://ourpromise.web.app/).

These are mostly guidelines, not rules. Use your best judgment, and feel free to propose changes to this document in a pull request.

**Table Of Contents**

[Code of Conduct 🗒](#code-of-conduct-🗒)

[Before You Contribute 🏁](#before-you-contribute-🏁)

[Local Setup 💻](#local-setup-💻)

[How Can You Contribute 📝](#how-can-you-contribute-📝)

- [Reporting Bugs 🐛](#reporting-bugs-🐛)
- [Suggesting Enhancements ✨](#suggesting-enhancements-✨)
- [First Code Contribution 🥇](#first-code-contribution-🥇)
- [Pull Request 🥳](#pull-request-🥳)

[Getting Your Changes Reviewed 📝](#getting-your-changes-reviewed-📝)

[Pull Request Reviewers Guide 🦮](#pull-request-reviewers-guide-🦮)

## Code of Conduct 🗒

> Everyone participating in this project is requested to practice decent behaviour. Help others, share knowledge and grow your knowledge!

Reviewer: [Note]
this is good for now, but we will need `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` to specifically cover this topic. 
The issue opened at #49

Author: Should I add these files (leave them empty) and link them through contributing.md file?

Author: @kachun333 What to do?

Reviewer: @aswin2108 , sorry I missed your comment.

We can just leave it as it is, no action required for now

## Before You Contribute 🏁

Welcome to [OurPromise](https://ourpromise.web.app/). Before you send the pull request make sure that you read the whole guidelines.
If you have any doubts relating to an issue, comment under it and tag members if needed.
Please don't file an issue to ask a question.

## Local Setup 💻

**Step 0:** Clone the forked repo and cd into it

```
git clone https://github.com/<Your username>/OurPromise.git
cd OurPromise/
```

**Step 1:** To install all the required packages run `npm install`.

**Step 2:** Run `npm start` to start the app. After successful compilation the app would be running in `http://localhost:3000/`.

> **Note:** If the process was successful, you would recieve the following in your terminal

Reviewer: [Typo]
```suggestion
**Note:** If the process was successful, you would receive the following in your terminal
```

> **Note:** If the process was successful, you would recieve the following in your terminal
> 
> ```
> Compiled with warnings.
> 
> [eslint]
> src\components\pages\GraduateDetails.tsx
>   Line 122:9:  Unexpected console statement  no-console
> 
> src\components\pages\Lecturers.tsx
>   Line 160:9:  Unexpected console statement  no-console
> 
> src\components\pages\auth\Create.tsx
>   Line 92:5:  Unexpected alert  no-alert
> xt-line to the line before.
> 
> WARNING in [eslint]
> src\components\pages\GraduateDetails.tsx
>   Line 122:9:  Unexpected console statement  no-console
> 
> src\components\pages\Lecturers.tsx
>   Line 160:9:  Unexpected console statement  no-console
> 
> src\components\pages\auth\Create.tsx
>   Line 92:5:  Unexpected alert  no-alert
> 
> src\components\pages\auth\Login.tsx  Line 123:5:  Unexpected alert  no-alert
> 
> src\components\pages\graduates\Graduates.tsx
>   Line 150:9:  Unexpected console statement  no-console
> 
> webpack compiled with 1 warning
> No issues found.
> ```

Reviewer: [Discussion]
I think this is too lengthy to list all warnings here.
What do you think? 👇 

```suggestion
**Note:** If the process was successful, there might be ESLint warnings on your terminal. There are meant to be refactor/fixed gradually
```

Reference: https://dev.to/thawkin3/eslint-warnings-are-an-anti-pattern-33np

Author: Tbh I also thought the same! So I have 3 solutions! 
* Keep a screenshot of the terminal and give it a specific size so it would occupy less space.
* Instead of writing the whole terminal we can only write,  `No issues found.` I have seen this, in one of the projects where I worked before, don't remember which was it. 
* Remove it!
Personally, I would prefer 2 because It's clear, and have seen it in other projects too!
So what do you think?

Reviewer: ok, we can with the 2nd option

Reviewer: @aswin2108 , please re-request review after you have ammeded ya. Thanks

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34387770/209433413-e16684df-f9af-48e1-b140-86246d6b7664.png)

> After recieving this, you can open [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) in your browser manually.

Reviewer: [Typo]
```suggestion
After receiving this, you can open [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) in your browser manually.
```

Author: I really do have a problem with **receive**!
Will crt the typo soon!

## How Can You Contribute 📝

### **Reporting Bugs 🐛**

This section guides you through submitting a bug report for this project. Following these guidelines helps maintainers and the community understand your report 📝, reproduce the behavior 💻, and find related reports 🔎.

> Before you create an issue, check if its existing or not. When creating one report include as many details as possible. The information you provide will help others to resolve it.

Reviewer: [Nitpick, Grammar]
```suggestion
Before you create an issue, check if it exists or not. When creating one report include as many details as possible. The information you provide will help others to resolve it.
```

**Note:** If you find a Closed issue that seems like it is the same thing that you're experiencing, open a new issue and include a link to the original issue in the body of your new one.

> **Note:** Before submiting a bug report make sure that you are on the latest commit.

Reviewer: [Typo]
```suggestion
**Note:** Before submitting a bug report make sure that you are on the latest commit.
```

**How to Submit A Good Bug Report**

> Bugs are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/). After figuring out the issue, create an issue on that repository and provide all the information, screen shot also if necessary.

Reviewer: [Typo]
```suggestion
Bugs are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/). After figuring out the issue, create an issue on that repository and provide all the information, and screenshots if necessary.
```

Explain the problem and include additional details to help maintainers reproduce the problem:

- **Use a clear and descriptive title for the issue** to identify the problem.
- **Describe the exact steps which reproduce the problem** in as many details as possible.
- **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps.** Include links to files or GitHub projects, or copy/pasteable snippets, which you use in those examples.
- **Describe the behavior you observed** after following the steps and point out what exactly is the problem with that behavior.
- **Explain which behavior you expected** to see instead and why.
- **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which show you following the described steps and clearly demonstrate the problem.

> - **If the problem wasn't triggered by a specific action, describe what you were doing before the problem happened** and share more information using the guidelines below.

Reviewer: [Note]
this is good for now, but we will need an issue template for this
The issue opened at #50

### **Suggesting Enhancements ✨**

This section guides you through submitting an enhancement suggestion for OurPromise, including completely new features and minor improvements to existing functionality. Following these guidelines helps maintainers and the community understand your suggestion and find related suggestions 🔎.

> Before creating enhancement suggessions, please check if its already existing or not. When you are creating an enhancement suggestion, please include as many details as possible. Just include the steps that you imagine you would take if the feature you're requesting existed.

Reviewer: [Typo]
```suggestion
Before creating enhancement suggestions, please check if it exists or not. When you are creating an enhancement suggestion, please include as many details as possible. Just include the steps that you imagine you would take if the feature you're requesting existed.
```

**Before Submitting An Enhancement Suggestion**

- You might discover that the enhancement is already available.
- Check if there's a package which provides the same.
- Check if it was already requested.

**How To Submit A Good Enhancement Suggestion?**

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/). After deciding your enhancement create an issue in the issues section.

- **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the suggestion.
- **Provide a step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement** in as many details as possible.
- **Provide specific examples to demonstrate the steps**. Include copy/pasteable snippets which you use in those examples, as [Markdown code blocks](https://help.github.com/articles/markdown-basics/#multiple-lines).
- **Describe the current behavior and explain which behavior you expected to see instead** and why.
- **Include screenshots and animated GIFs** which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part of the project which the suggestion is related to.

> - **Explain why this enhancement would be useful** to our users.

Reviewer: [Note]
this is good for now, but we will need an issue template for this
The issue opened at #51

### **First Code Contribution 🥇**

> Unsure on where to begin your contribution? You can start by looking at issues having `Good First Issues`, `Documentation` or `Beginner` tags. You can fine theme [here](https://github.com/kachun333/OurPromise/issues)

Reviewer: [Typo]
```suggestion
Unsure on where to begin your contribution? You can start by looking at issues having `Good First Issues`, `Documentation` or `Beginner` tags. You can find them[here](https://github.com/kachun333/OurPromise/issues)
```

### **Pull Request 🥳**

Once you have [forked](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) the repo, you need to create your code contributions within a new branch of your forked repo.  
For general background on creating and managing branches within GitHub, see: [Git Branching and Merging](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging).

Following are the steps to guide you:

**Step 0:** Clone the forked repo and cd into it

```
git clone https://github.com/<Your username>/OurPromise.git
cd OurPromise/
```

> **Step 1:** To begin, create a new branch, give a good [branch name](https://codingsight.com/git-branching-naming-convention-best-practices/). You usually create a branch like so:

Reviewer: [Thankful 👍]
thanks for sharing the git branch naming convention best practices.
we should follow this

```
git checkout master
git checkout -b [name_of_your_new_branch]
```

**Step 2:** Now make your changes and then stage your files for commit.

```
git add [File name]    --> To stage one particular files
or
git add .              --> To stage all the modified files
```

**Step 3:** Commit all the changes. The [commit message should be meaningful](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-write-better-git-commit-messages/), short and to the point.

```

> git commit -m "Write a meaningfull, small commit message"

Reviewer: [Typo]
```suggestion
git commit -m "Write a meaningful, small commit message"
```

```

**Step 4:** Now push the changes for review

```
git push origin <name_of_your_new_branch>
```

**Step 5:** After you push your code, github would detect the new branch and an option would be there to create a pull request.

**Step 6:** The last step is to give a detailed description and short title in your pull request.

- **Dont forget** to [link your PR with the issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue) using specific keywords.
- Provide a **screen shot** if necessary.

> - Give a **detailed description** on what you changed.

Reviewer: [Note]
this is good for now, but we will need a Pull Request Template to standardize things
Issue opened at #52
